Better Package Style layout (#71)
pyansys/dev-guide: doc/source/packaging/structure.rst

"project". A project can be uploaded to a repository to better track the changes
applied to it.

Naming Convention
=================

Large organizations providing Python packages follow a consistent naming
pattern. Ansys follows two naming conventions, depending on the nature of the project.

PyAnsys Library
---------------

- The project name is to be ``Py<project>``. For example, ``PyMAPDL`` is the
  project name for MAPDL and ``PyAEDT`` is the project name for AEDT.

- The repository name as hosted on GitHub should be all lowercase to follow
  GitHub community standards. For example, `pymapdl`_ and `pyaedt`_.

- The Python library name is to be in the format
  ``ansys-<product/service>-<feature>``. For example, `ansys-mapdl-core
  <https://pypi.org/project/ansys-mapdl-core/>`_ is the name for the core MAPDL
  library.

.. include:: diag/pyansys_namespace_diag.rst

The previous structure leads to the following namespace when executing the import
statement:

.. code:: python

   import ansys.product import library

Using long Python library names provides two primary advantages:

- `Namespace Packages`_ can be used to designate official Ansys packages

> - Consistent branding and style can be applied to PyAnsys libraries

Reviewer: I added periods for these bullet items because they are both complete sentences.

gRPC Interface Package
----------------------
Lower-level gRPC interface packages like `ansys-api-mapdl`_ should always be
named ``ansys-api-<product/service>`` and may contain an additional level:
``ansys-api-<product/service>-<secondlevel>``.

.. include:: diag/grpc_structure_diag.rst

> The previous structure leads to the following namespace within the ``*.proto`` files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This structure leads to the following namespace within ``*.proto`` files:
```

.. code::

   package ansys.api.<product/service>.v0;

Python Libraries
================

A Python library is the formal way of distributing Python source code. It allows

> to reuse and specify Python code dependencies. The guide presented in this page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for reuse and for specifying Python code dependencies. The guidance presented in this section
```

is compliant with the `Python Packaging Authority`_ and PyAnsys recommendations.

.. note::

   The best way to keep up to date with Python packaging is to check the `Python
   Packaging User Guide`_, maintained by the `Python Packaging Authority`_ (PyPA).
   PyAnsys guidelines are built on top of PyPA guidelines.

Scripts, Modules, Sub-packages, and Packages
--------------------------------------------

To understand the structure of a Python Library, it is important to know
the difference between Python scripts, modules, sub-packages, and packages.

* ``Script``: Any Python file with logic source code.
* ``Module``: Any Python script hosted next to an ``__init__.py`` file.
* ``Sub-package``: Any directory containing various Python modules.
* ``Package``: Any directory containing Python modules and sub-packages.

Differences Between a Python Package and Library
------------------------------------------------

> Although both terms are used interchangeably, there is a key difference between
> them: a Python package is a collection of Python modules and sub-packages while
> a Python Library is a collection of Python packages. Figure :numref:`python pkg
> lib diag` exposes this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the terms *package* and *library* are often used interchangeably, there is a key difference between
them. A Python package is a collection of Python modules and sub-packages, while
a Python Library is a collection of Python packages. Figure :numref:`python pkg
lib diag` exposes this.
```

.. include:: diag/python_library_diag.rst

Required Files for a PyAnsys Project
====================================

> The structure of any PyAnsys library contains the following files and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The structure of any PyAnsys library contains these files and
```

directories:

.. include:: diag/pyproduct_library_structure_diag.rst

Descriptions follow for some of the directories in the structure:

- ``doc/`` contains files related to documentation, guidelines, and examples.

- ``src/`` contains all Python modules and scripts that form the project.

- ``tests/`` contains all unit tests for checking the integrity of the project.

> - ``setup.py`` or ``pyproject.toml`` is known as the project's file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``setup.py`` or ``pyproject.toml`` is the project file.
```

The ``doc/`` Directory
----------------------

When distributing software it is important to document it. Documenting software

> means giving guidelines on how to install and describing all functions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
means giving guidelines on how to install it and describing all functions,
```

methods, and classes that it ships with. Case scenarios and examples should also
be part of the documentation. 

A PyAnsys project should have the following documentation sections:

- ``Getting Started``: Defines requirements and provides installation information
- ``User Guide``: Explains how to use the software
- ``API Reference``: Describes the source code
- ``Examples``: Provides use case scenarios that demonstrate the capabilities of the software
- ``Contributing``: Supplies project-specific contribution guides and can link to general PyAnsys contribution guidelines

> Projects in the PyAnsys ecosystem take advantage of `Sphinx`_, a tool used for
> building documentation for Python-based projects. A ``doc/`` directory making
> use of `Sphinx`_ requires the following structure, as shown by figure
> :numref:`doc structure diag`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects in the PyAnsys ecosystem take advantage of `Sphinx`_, a tool used for
building documentation for Python-based projects. As shown in :numref:`doc structure diag`,
`Sphinx`_ requires a ``doc/`` directory with a specific structure:
```

.. include:: diag/doc_structure_diag.rst

> - ``_build`` contains the rendered documentation in various formats: HTML,
>   PDF...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``_build`` contains the rendered documentation in various formats, such as HTML
  and PDF.
```

- ``source`` contains the RST files which will be rendered when building the
  documentation.

> - ``make.bat`` and ``Makefile`` are used to automate cleaning and building
>   commands. The ``make.bat`` is intended to be used by Windows users while
>   ``Makefile`` is devised for MacOS/Linux ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``make.bat`` and ``Makefile`` are used to automate cleaning and building
  commands. On Windows, you use ``make.bat``, and on MacOS/Linux, you
  use ``Makefile``.
```

The ``source/`` directory must contain at least these files:

- ``conf.py`` is a Python script used to declare the configuration of `Sphinx`_.
- ``index.rst`` is the index page of the documentation. In this file, try to reuse the
  ``README.rst`` file to avoid duplication.

If you would like to include images or documents, add them in the ``_static/``
directory.

The ``src/`` Directory
----------------------

> All the Python source code must be located in this directory. This is where the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the Python source code must be located in the ``src/`` directory. This is where the
```

build system will look when generating the wheel and source distributions.

.. warning::

   Folders inside the ``src/`` cannot contain spaces or hyphens. Replace these
   symbols by using the underscore '_'.

The structure of the ``src/`` directory determines the namespace of the PyAnsys

> library. Namespace allow you to easily split sub-packages from a package into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
library. Namespaces allow you to easily split sub-packages from a package into
```

single, independent distributions.

There are different approaches available for creating a namespace package. For
the ansys namespace, we use the `PEP 420`_ `native namespace packages`_ approach.

Therefore, the source directory of any PyAnsys library must look like the one

> exposed by figure :numref:`src structure diag`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shown in diagram :numref:`src structure diag`:
```

.. include:: diag/src_structure_diag.rst

The ``tests/`` Directory
------------------------

To guarantee the integrity of a PyAnsys project, a good test suite is required.
PyAnsys projects use the `pytest`_ testing framework.

A good practice is to emulate the structure of the ``src/ansys/product/library``

> directory although it is not always necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directory, although this is not always necessary.
```

.. include:: diag/tests_structure_diag.rst

> Notice the usage of ``tests_*/`` when creating new directories inside the
> ``tests/`` one. On the other hand, unit testing files are named using the
> ``test_*.py`` prefix. This is the preferred way of naming directories and files
> inside the ``tests/`` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice the use of ``tests_*/`` when creating new directories inside the
``tests/`` one. For unit testing files, names use the ``test_*.py`` prefix.
This is the preferred way of naming directories and files inside the
``tests/`` directory.
```

The ``LICENSE`` File
--------------------

The ``LICENSE`` file provides the legal framework for the software. The

> recommended license for `PyAnsys`_ projects is `MIT License`_. A template for

Author: An MIT license file is always required for PyAnsys projects.

this license is provided below:

.. include:: code/license_mit_code.rst

.. note::

   Just because a software does not ship with a LICENSE file, it does not mean

>    it is free or open source. If you require from using this software, contact

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   it is free or open source. If you need to use unlicensed software, contact
```

   its development team so they can provide you with the right license.

The ``README.rst`` File
-----------------------

Each PyAnsys library should have a ``README.rst`` file in the root directory.

> The preferred format of this file is `reStructuredText Markup Syntax`_ or a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preferred format of this file is `reStructuredText Markup Syntax`_,
```

although `Markdown Syntax`_ can be used too.  While Markdown syntax has better
GitHub support, text in RST files can be reused within Sphinx documentation.
This avoids duplication between the ``README.rst`` and the main ``index.rst`` in
the ``doc/source/`` directory.

The ``README.rst`` file should at the minimum contain these elements:

- PyAnsys library title
- General description
- Installation directions (via ``pip install`` and ``git clone``)
- Basic usage
- Links to the full documentation

The ``README.rst`` file is also reused within the project file metadata. It is
usually included in the ``long-description`` field.

The ``pyproject.toml`` File
---------------------------

> The `PEP 518`_ introduced the usage of a new project file called
> ``pyproject.toml``. More information about this file can be found in the
> REF-TO-BUILD-SYSTEMS-TOML section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`PEP 518`_ introduced the usage of a project file named
``pyproject.toml``. More information about this file can be found in the
REF-TO-BUILD-SYSTEMS-TOML section.
```
```suggestion
The `PEP 518`_ introduced the usage of a new project file called
``pyproject.toml``. More information about this file can be found in the
REF-TO-BUILD-SYSTEMS-TOML section.
```

> ``pyproject.toml``. More information about this file can be found in the
> REF-TO-BUILD-SYSTEMS-TOML section.

Author: ```suggestion
``pyproject.toml``.
```

This file is mandatory as it  allows ``pip`` to resolve the requirements for
building the library. The following tabs expose the ``[build-system]`` section
for some of the most popular build-system backend tools in the Python ecosystem:

> .. include:: code/pyproject_code.rst

Reviewer 2: This is great!

The ``setup.py`` File
---------------------

> For a long time, the ``setup.py`` has been the usual way of building and
> distributing Python libraries. As opposite to the static ``pyproject.toml``
> file, ``setup.py`` is Python script. This means that Python code is interpreted
> when building the library. This allows to customize the building process but
> also may introduced security issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a long time, the ``setup.py`` file was generally used to build and
distribute Python libraries. Unlike a static ``pyproject.toml`` file, the
``setup.py`` file is a Python script. This means that Python code is interpreted
when building the library. This approach supports customizing the build
process but can also introduce security issues.
```

> .. warning::

Author: ```suggestion
.. note::
```

   The ``setup.py`` is only compatible with `setuptools`_. Consider using a
   ``pyproject.toml`` file instead.

> 

Reviewer: @jorgepiloto Warning are generally reserved for important issues like loss of data. It seems that this warning should be a note instead.

> The ``setup.py`` file is only compatible with `Setuptools`_. A ``setup.cfg`` can
> also be used for specifying the metadata and packages, but the ``setup.py`` file
> must be present too. More information about its usage can be found in the
> following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While a ``setup.cfg`` file can be used to specify the metadata and packages, the ``setup.py`` file
must be present too. For more information, see:
```

* `Building and Distributing Packages with Setuptools`_
* `Configuring setuptools using setup.cfg files`_

> As a minimum configuration for PyAnsys projects, the following ``setup.py``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a minimum configuration for a PyAnsys project, the following ``setup.py``
```

.. ref_project_structure::

#################
Project Structure
#################

Most of the projects in the PyAnsys ecosystem ship in the form of a Python

> Package. This is the formal way of distributing Python-based projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
package. This is the formal way of distributing Python-based projects.
```

Reviewer: I don't see any reason for capitalizing the "p" in package.

The guide presented in this page is compliant with the `Python Packaging

> Authority`_ and the `PyAnsys`_ recommendations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authority`_ and `PyAnsys`_ recommendations.
```

.. note::

   The best way to keep up-to-date with Python Packaging is to check the `Python
   Packaging User Guide`_, maintained by the `Python Packaging Authority`_ (PyPA).
   PyAnsys guidelines are build on top of PyPA ones.

.. TODO: Explain the difference between Package and Library?
   Package: only holds modules
   Library: a collection of packages

> PyAnsys Project Required Files
> ==============================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Required Files for a PyAnsys Project
=======================
```

The fundamental PyAnsys Library structure is composed by the following files and
directories:

.. code:: bash

    pyproduct_library/
    │
    ├── doc/
    │   ├── make.bat
    │   ├── Makefile
    │   └── source/
    │       ├── index.rst
    │       └── conf.py
    │               
    ├── src/
    │   └── ansys/
    │       └── product/
    │           └── library/
    │               └── __init__.py
    │               
    ├── tests/
    │   └── test_*.py
    │               
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.rst
    ├── pyproject.toml
    └── setup.py (optional)

> The following directories can be identified in previous structure:
> 
> - ``doc/`` is devoted to store any piece of information related to documentation,
>   guidelines and examples.
> 
> - ``src/`` is used to collect all the Python modules and scripts that form
>   the project.
> 
> - ``tests/`` stores all the unit tests whose purpose is to check the integrity
>   of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Descriptions follow for some of the directories in the structure:

- ``doc/`` contains files related to documentation, guidelines, and examples.

- ``src/`` contains all Python modules and scripts that form
  the project.

- ``tests/`` contains all unit tests for checking the integrity
  of the project.
```

Reviewer: We use the Oxford comma, which says to put a comma before the "and" or "or" in a list of 3 or more items.

Most of the projects in the PyAnsys ecosystem ship in the form of a Python
library with other additional files. All these files form what it is called a
"project". A project can be uploaded to a repository to better track the changes
applied to it.

Naming Convention
=================

Large organizations providing Python packages follow a consistent naming
pattern. Ansys follows two naming conventions, depending on the nature of the project.

PyAnsys Library
---------------

- The project name is to be ``Py<project>``. For example, ``PyMAPDL`` is the
  project name for MAPDL and ``PyAEDT`` is the project name for AEDT.

- The repository name as hosted on GitHub should be all lowercase to follow
  GitHub community standards. For example, `pymapdl`_ and `pyaedt`_.

- The Python library name is to be in the format
  ``ansys-<product/service>-<feature>``. For example, `ansys-mapdl-core
  <https://pypi.org/project/ansys-mapdl-core/>`_ is the name for the core MAPDL
  library.

.. include:: diagrams/pyansys_namespace_diagram.rst

> Previous structure leads to the following namespace when executing the import

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous structure leads to the following namespace when executing the import
```

statement:

.. code:: python

   import ansys.product import library

Using long Python library names provides two primary advantages:

- `Namespace Packages`_ can be used to designate official Ansys packages
- Consistent branding and style can be applied to PyAnsys libraries

gRPC Interface Package
----------------------
Lower level gRPC interface packages like `ansys-api-mapdl`_ should always be

> named ``ansys-api-<product/service>`` or may contain an additional level with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
named ``ansys-api-<product/service>`` and may contain an additional level with
```

``ansys-api-<product/service>-<secondlevel>``.

.. include:: diagrams/grpc_structure_diagram.rst

> Previous structure leas to the following namespace within the ``*.proto`` files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous structure leads to the following namespace within the ``*.proto`` files:
```

When distributing software it is important to document it. Documenting software
means giving guidelines on how to install and use it but also which functions,

> methods and/or classes does it ship with. Case scenarios and examples are also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
methods, and classes that it ships with. Case scenarios and examples should also
```

> be considered documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be part of the documentation. 
```

> It is recommended to have the following sections in a PyAnsys project
> documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A PyAnsys project should have the following documentation sections:
```

> - ``Getting Started`` section explains requirements and installation details.
> - ``User Guide`` section explains how to use the software.
> - ``API Reference`` section contains source code documentation.
> - ``Examples`` section case scenarios demonstrating the capabilities of the software.
> - ``Contributing`` section can be linked to generic PyAnsys contributing guidelines. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``Getting Started``: Defines requirements and provides installation information
- ``User Guide``: Explains how to use the software
- ``API Reference``: Describes the source code
- ``Examples``: Provides use case scenarios that demonstrate the capabilities of the software
- ``Contributing`` Supplies project-specific contribution guides and can link to general PyAnsys contribution guidelines
```

> The ``source/`` directory needs to contain at least the following files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``source/`` directory must contain at least these files:
```

- ``conf.py`` is a Python script used to declare the configuration of `Sphinx`_.

> - ``index.rst`` is the index page of the documentation. Try to reuse the
>   ``README.rst`` file in here to avoid duplication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``index.rst`` is the index page of the documentation. In this file, try to reuse the
  ``README.rst`` file to avoid duplication.
```

In case you would like to include images or documents, it is recommended to add

> those in the ``_static/`` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to include images or documents, you should add
those in the ``_static/`` directory.
```

Author: Solved locally, pushing changes.
